# Digital-Humanities-project
The original data, Chalcolithic and early bronze age burials in northeast England, came from ads, archaeology data service in CSV format.
The Data was very messy, so it was cleaned, refined,  modified and simplified in OpenRefine to suit visualization. This took a long time, and many different versions of the data were made, depending on what was relevant. Because of the many steps, reproducing all that was done to the data would be quite difficult and it would certanly take a while if somebody took it upon themselves to do so, but it would be possible.
Some colums were dropped early on, as they were unrelevant to what I intended to visualize. Then the cells were refined using text facets and clustering tools. More colums were added, and multivalued cells split, but in palladio the visualization was done with unsplit cells, that were then split. The values were simplified within some colums so as to have fewer variables.
The missing LatLong coordinates were converted and added so the data could be visualized in Palladio. They were unified into one column. 
When the data was refined, some simple visualiztions were made in Plotly. These show simple things such as the sex and age distribution of the sites, treatment of the remains by region etc.
More complex visualizations were made in Palladio and Raw. These show timelines, and maps. The data was also arrenged into a table form in Palladio, and this was used to make visualizations as well, for example the visualization on sexes and artefacts.  
The main intrest in choosing this data was to use it to visualize the relationship between sexes and artefact finds, but very quickly it became apparent that this data was not well suited to this, because such a large proportion of the sex determinations were either not available or indetermined. Based on such a small amount of sexed individuals, finds seem to distribute rarther evenly. Therefore this data cannot be used to give sex classifications to the unkown individuals based on artefact finds, because there doesn't seem to be any artefacts that seem to belong solely to any given sex.
This data could be used to draw conclusions based on age, as age classifivations are more numerous, but without the information about sex, it might become moot.
